Harman Kardon® NC headphones feature an exclusive acoustic system that integrates superb mechanical design, materials and electronics. User-exchangeable bows, self-adjusting housings, soft leather cups and slow-retention ear-cup foam ensure a comfortable fit and an optimal acoustic seal on the ear. The NC model employs the proprietary HARMAN closed-loop, active digital noise-cancelling technology developed for acoustic installations in luxury cars. The USB-rechargeable NC headphones have a battery that lasts up to 40 hours. Even when the battery dies, the headphones will still work when connected by the supplied bypass cable to a playback device. No other noise-cancelling headphones offer this passive playback mode.

Sophisticated, modern design

Harman Kardon NC headphones offer high-tech performance wrapped in an elegant package and interface. With its blend of sandblasted steel and black matte housings, the NCs’ design and function complement Apple products while reinforcing the sophisticated elegance of the Harman Kardon brand.

Proprietary closed-loop, active digital noise-cancellation technology

NC headphones adapt the proprietary closed-loop, active digital noise-cancellation technology developed by HARMAN for luxury automobile sound installations. This technology analyzes and optimizes the audio signal before it reaches the listener’s ears. NC headphones incorporate a microphone inside the ear cup to provide the most accurate noise cancellation. The active digital noise cancellation combines with the NCs’ superior passive noise-cancelling features to create the best possible listening experience.

Passive playback mode

With other noise-cancelling headphones, the music ends when the battery dies. Not so with NC model headphones. By connecting the headphones to the playback device using a supplied bypass cable, you can enjoy continuous playback (minus the active digital noise-cancelling) even when the battery is dead.

Optimized driver system

High-performance 1-5/8-inch (40-millimeter) drivers produce an excellent frequency response (16Hz – 20kHz), wide dynamic range and high sound-pressure levels. As a result, NC headphones deliver accurate sound and extended bass response.

Bass tube

NC headphones incorporate a bass tube that functions like a tuned bass port. It boosts bass performance and helps the headphones produce exceptional bass response at any volume level.

Sonic clarity and accuracy even at low volume levels

The NCs’ acoustic engineering and passive noise reduction mean that you can hear music and other audio content clearly at low volume levels. So you can enjoy all the music definition without all the volume – and that’s safer for your ears.

User-exchangeable metal bows

To facilitate the optimal positioning of the ear cup on the head – and improve acoustic performance – NC headphones come with headband bows in two different sizes: small and large. You can easily swap the bows to determine which size maximizes comfort and fit.

Self-adjusting housings

The rugged steel hinges connecting the NC’s housings to its headband enable the housings to swivel in two dimensions. This structure maintains an ideal fit and acoustic seal on the ear, enhancing comfort and maximizing the rejection of outside noise for superior sound.

User-detachable, soft leather ear pads

The pads on the NC headphones feature a soft, protein leather that rests comfortably on the ear for a luxurious feel. If necessary, you can remove the pads to clean or replace them. When attached to the housings, the pads are secured with industrial-strength magnets and PORON® foam.

Slow-retention premium foam

Another factor contributing to the NC headphones’ excellent passive noise reduction and extended bass response is the slow-retention foam in the ear pads. The premium foam helps maintain an acoustic seal on the ear, which keeps outside noises out, enhances bass response and keeps your music from disturbing others.

USB-rechargeable

NC users can charge the headphones on the go with a supplied USB cord, which eliminates the need for batteries or an extra charger.

2D folding mechanism

The NC ear cups fold flat when they’re not in use, making the headphones easier to transport and store.

Detachable cable with metal connectors

The NC headphones’ cable is wrapped in tightly woven nylon fabric and includes highly finished 1/8-inch (3.5-millimeter) connectors on both ends. Flexible and durable, the heavy-gauge cable resists tangling, as does the cable’s single-side entry to the housing.

Premium carrying case

Beautiful sound is worth protecting. NC headphones come with a carrying case that reduces cable tangling. The flat-folding headphones and carrying case slip easily into bags or briefcases – which makes them especially convenient for travelers.