You can be an adult, dark-haired man and cry. All it takes is for you to realize suddenly that love lasts three years. It’s the kind of discovery that I wouldn’t wish on my worst enemy—which is a figure of speech, because I don’t have any. Snobs don’t have enemies, which is why they talk shit about everyone: to try to make some.
A mosquito lasts a day; a rose, three days. A cat lasts thirteen years; love lasts three. That’s the way it is. First there’s a year of passion, then a year of comfortable intimacy, and finally a year of boredom.

The first year, you say: “If you leave me, I’ll kill myself.”

The second year, you say: “If you leave me, I’ll suffer, but I’ll eventually get over it.”

The third year, you say: “If you leave me, I’m breaking out the champagne.”

Nobody warns you that love lasts three years. The conspiracy of love is a well-guarded secret. You’re led to believe that it’s for life when in fact love disappears, chemically, at the end of three years. I read it in a women’s magazine: love consists of a rush of dopamine, norepinephrine, prolactin, luliberin, and oxytocin. A tiny molecule, phenethylamine (PEA), triggers feelings of happiness, exaltation, and euphoria. When you fall head over heels for someone, it’s just your neurons saturated with PEA. As for intimacy, it’s endorphins (the opium of lovers). Society has deceived you: you’ve been sold “true love,” and yet it’s been scientifically proven that these hormones cease to function after three years.
What’s more, the statistics speak for themselves: a relationship lasts on average 317.5 days (I wonder what happens during the last half-day...), and in Paris, two out of three married couples get divorced within three years of getting married. According to the demographic records of the United Nations, census experts have been studying divorce rates in sixty-two countries since 1947. The majority of divorces occur during the fourth year of marriage (meaning that the process was set in motion at the end of the third year). “In Finland, in Russia, in Egypt, in South Africa, for hundreds of millions of men and women studied by the UN, who speak different languages, have different jobs, dress differently, handle different money, whisper different prayers, fear different demons, nurture an infinite variety of hopes and dreams... yet there’s always a peak in divorces after three years of living together.” The banality of divorce is just one more humiliation.
Three years! Statistics, biochemistry, my own personal experience: love’s shelf-life is always the same. Disturbing coincidence. Why three years and not two, or four, or six hundred? Personally, this all confirms the existence of the three stages defined by Stendhal, Barthes, and Barbara Cartland: passion-intimacy-boredom, a cycle in which each stage lasts one year—a triad as sacred as the Holy Trinity.

The first year, you buy the furniture.

The second year, you rearrange the furniture.

The third year, you argue over who gets to keep the furniture.

The song by Léo Ferré sums it up nicely: Avec le temps on n’aime plus. Who are you, to dare to stand up to glands and neurotransmitters that will let you down as soon as your time is up? You can try to make a case for the lyricism of poetry—but faced with the twin forces of science and statistics, love is doomed from the start.