At 30, I still can’t look a cute girl in the eyes without blushing. It’s rather disconcerting to be this sensitive. I’m too jaded to truly fall in love, yet too sensitive to remain indifferent. In short, too weak to stay married. What’s the matter with me? Of course, I’d love to just refer you to my last two books, but that wouldn’t be very nice of me, given how these contemporary masterpieces were remaindered shortly after their critical success.
So let’s sum up the previous episodes, shall we? I was an unrepentant viveur, a product of our useless, exorbitant society. I was born September 21st, 1965, twenty years after Auschwitz, on the first day of autumn. I was born into the world on the day the leaves began to fall from the trees, when the days began to shorten. Which explains, perhaps, my disillusioned temperament. I earned a living stringing words together, for newspapers or advertising agencies: the latter having the advantage of paying more for fewer words. I made myself known throwing parties when no one threw parties in Paris anymore. That has nothing to do with words, but it’s how I made a name for myself, probably because these days people who string words together are seen as less important than people with their photo in the pages of some magazine.
I surprised those who knew me when I got married out of love. One day, as I gazed into her big blue eyes, I thought I’d glimpsed eternity. Me, always running from party to party, from job to job, all just to avoid the inexorable depression, all of a sudden I could picture myself happy.
Anne, my wife, was unreal, a luminous kind of beautiful, it seemed impossible. Way too pretty to be happy—but that I didn’t realize until later. I would look at her for hours. Sometimes she’d realized what I was doing and would yell at me: “Stop looking at me,” she’d say, “you’re being annoying.” But just watching her live became my favorite pastime. Guys like me, who thought themselves ugly growing up, are generally so surprised when they manage to court a pretty girl that they ask for them in marriage a tad quick.
What happened next isn’t particularly original: let’s just say, to keep it brief, that we moved into an apartment too small for so great a love. All of a sudden, we were going out too often, and were swept away by a rather treacherous whirlwind. People would say:
“Those two go out often, don’t they.”
“They do, poor things. Things must be going so badly for them!”
And they weren’t entirely wrong, even if they were quite pleased to finally have a pretty girl at their sleazy parties for once.
And that’s the way it goes—as soon as you’re the least bit happy, life sees to it that you’re brought back down to earth.
We were unfaithful, one right after the other.
We broke up like we got married: without knowing why.
Marriage is a huge scheme, an infernal fraud, an organized deception in which we’ve perished like two children. Why? How? It’s quite simple. A young man asks the woman he loves to marry him. He’s scared shitless, it’s cute, he blushes, he sweats, he stutters, and she, her eyes light up, she laughs nervously, makes him repeat the question. As soon as she’s said yes, suddenly an unending list of obligations falls on top of them, family dinners and lunches, seating arrangements, dress fitting, reprimanding, it’s forbidden to burp or fart around the in-laws, stand up straight, smile, smile, it’s an unending nightmare and it’s only the beginning: next, you’ll see, everything is arranged to ensure they detest one another.